# flatsheet

A multi-user, real-time editor for curating data.

## Current status

This version of Flatsheet is an **in-progress** rewrite using Node.js. The first version of Flatsheet was a [Ruby on Rails prototype](https://github.com/flatsheet/flatsheet-prototype).

Many aspects of the project are incomplete, but things are far enough along that it will be useful if you want to install it and **experiment in a development environment**.

Want to see an early demo of the real-time editor? Go here: http://flatsheet-realtime.herokuapp.com/

### Todos:

Open issues represent current todo list: [github.com/flatsheet/flatsheet/issues](http://github.com/flatsheet/flatsheet/issues)

## Contributing
- Tasks are run using npm run scripts. Review the scripts object in the package.json file for details.
- Files in the `public` directory are generated by npm scripts
- Fork this repository.
- `npm install`
- `npm run watch` to build css & browser js
- `npm start` to start the server
- Create a branch for your changes.
- Include tests if applicable.
- Add/edit documentation for any changes.
- Submit a pull request.


## Getting started

### Installation

- Clone this repository `git@github.com:flatsheet/flatsheet.git`
- Change directory `cd flatsheet`
- Install dependencies with `npm install`

### File/folder setup
- Navigate to the root directory of the project and run `mkdir data` to create the directory the db will live in.
- Copy the example config file:
  - `cp config.example.js config.js`
  - Edit the values to suit your purpose

### Create an admin user
- Create an admin account by running `./bin/flatsheet account create-admin`. You'll be prompted for email, username, & password.
- You can run `./bin/flatsheet account list` to see that your admin account was created.

### Create a sheet
- Right now a sheet is added through the command-line by importing a JSON file (soon to be improved with UI, CSV import, etc.)
- Import a sheet like this: `./bin/flatsheet sheet add tests/data/coworking.json`
- Then you can run `./bin/flatsheet sheet list` to see that your sheet has been added.

### Start the server
- Now run `npm start` to start the server.
- In development you can watch the css & js using `npm run watch`.
- Go to `http://127.0.0.1:3333` and log in with the admin account credentials.
- You should now see the example data set, and be able to click it to go to the editor.
- **NOTE: the editor in this version is not currently fully functional!**

### Invite users
- Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:3333/account/invite`
- Enter email addresses, one address per line
- Click "Send invitation"
- Users will receive an email with a link they can click to create accounts

## Support

This project is supported in part by a [code sprint grant from OpenNews](http://opennews.org/codesprints.html).

More info [at the Flatsheet blog](http://flatsheet.io/blog/getting-flatsheet-to-v1-with-help-from-opennews/).

## License
MIT
